
Adventures with my Accelorometer

hooking up 
 pDF link:
 parts site
 git hub
 
 
 In the git hub there were two examples
 1. read data from accelorometer
 2. Calibrate accelometer
 
 
 the Calibrate provided offsets for use of the accelometer for all future programs using this accelometer
 I ran this program several times and it came up with the following offsets
 -3,-3,7
 -3,-3,8
 -4,-4,8
 -1,-2,7
 -4,-1,8
 
 
 testing out the accelometer
 
 I mounted the accelerometer onto the front of the run rover and ran through abunch of tests
 
At a stand still the accelerometer provides the following readings  (x,y,z) = (0.04,0.21,1.00)
The way I have this mounted the Y axis monitors the forwards an backward motion of the run rover

there is a lot of noise on the channel so they values are +/- 0.03
If the reading jumps +/- 0.05 then the unit is moving
If the reading jumps +/- 0.3 then we hit something.


As the runt rover moves the magnitude of the Y value jumps all over the place.
There does not seem to be any consistent increase or decrease in Y readings. 
This makes it tough to determine what direction the runt rover  is going.
The accelerometer is not senstive enough to pick up on the voluntary changes in direction so when the runt rover turns
the accelerometer data does not spit out readings that would enable me to detect that.

I was hoping that there would be more consistent readings and the ability to figure out the change in direction.


conclusion:
accelerometer is good for TAP sensor
need either compass or gyroscope to get usable data as it seems like accelerometer can only sense
1. knowing if runt rover is actually moving
2. if runt rover hits something and stops abruptly


After this I had to figure out what I really need to make navigation possible

I came across this video for understanding accelerometers and gyroscopes and how they all work together
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C7JQ7Rpwn2k


Tomorrow
get list of readings as it accelerates
look at other axis
look at TAP sensor




also need odometer if we want to measure distance travelled for virtual walls

 

 